---
layout: python_item
permalink: /python/answers/cf1-20/
title: "CF1-20"
date: "2013-11-25 02:12:52 +0200"
author: wh1100717
version: 1.0.0
categories: [5/20]
---

# 1A Theatre Square

<blockquote>
<p>Theatre Square in the capital city of Berland has a rectangular shape with the size n × m meters. On the occasion of the city's anniversary, a decision was taken to pave the Square with square granite flagstones. Each flagstone is of the size a × a.</p>

<p>What is the least number of flagstones needed to pave the Square? It's allowed to cover the surface larger than the Theatre Square, but the Square has to be covered. It's not allowed to break the flagstones. The sides of flagstones should be parallel to the sides of the Square.</p>

<strong>Input</strong><br>
The input contains three positive integer numbers in the first line: n,  m and a (1 ≤  n, m, a ≤ 109).
<br>
<br>
<strong>Output</strong><br>
Write the needed number of flagstones.<br>
</blockquote>

####Sample test(s):

```bash
input
6 6 4
output
4
```

####Code:

```python
import sys
import math
#读取输入并将所输入的内容按照空格进行切片分割成数组
inputs = sys.stdin.readline().split()
#分别获取n,m和a的值，并且转换为int类型
n = int(inputs[0])
m = int(inputs[1])
a = int(inputs[2])
#math.ceil函数表示想上取整
#因为n和a都是整数，所以如果直接使用除法，则得到的是舍去小数的整数部分
#所以需要先将其转换为浮点数
x = math.ceil(n * 1.0 / a)
y = math.ceil(m * 1.0 / a)
print int(x*y)
```

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# 4A Watermelon

<blockquote>
<p>One hot summer day Pete and his friend Billy decided to buy a watermelon. They chose the biggest and the ripest one, in their opinion. After that the watermelon was weighed, and the scales showed w kilos. They rushed home, dying of thirst, and decided to divide the berry, however they faced a hard problem.</p>

<p>Pete and Billy are great fans of even numbers, that's why they want to divide the watermelon in such a way that each of the two parts weighs even number of kilos, at the same time it is not obligatory that the parts are equal. The boys are extremely tired and want to start their meal as soon as possible, that's why you should help them and find out, if they can divide the watermelon in the way they want. For sure, each of them should get a part of positive weight.</p>

<strong>Input</strong><br>
The first (and the only) input line contains integer number w (1 ≤ w ≤ 100) — the weight of the watermelon bought by the boys.
<br>
<br>
<strong>Output</strong><br>
Print YES, if the boys can divide the watermelon into two parts, each of them weighing even number of kilos; and NO in the opposite case.
<br>
<br>
<strong>Note</strong><br>
For example, the boys can divide the watermelon into two parts of 2 and 6 kilos respectively (another variant — two parts of 4 and 4 kilos).
</blockquote>

####Sample test(s):

```bash
input
8
output
YES
```

####Code:

```python
#这道题实际上就是来判断一个数是否可以分成2个偶数
#因为偶数+偶数一定是一个偶数，所以任意奇数都一定不可分
#另外偶数为2只能分成1和1，故如果w为2也返回NO
import sys
w = int(sys.stdin.readline())
if w % 2 == 1 or w == 2: print "NO"
else: print "YES"
```

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# 158A Next Round

<blockquote>
<p>"Contestant who earns a score equal to or greater than the k-th place finisher's score will advance to the next round, as long as the contestant earns a positive score..." — an excerpt from contest rules.</p>

<p>A total of n participants took part in the contest (n ≥ k), and you already know their scores. Calculate how many participants will advance to the next round.</p>

<strong>Input</strong><br>
The first line of the input contains two integers n and k (1 ≤ k ≤ n ≤ 50) separated by a single space.

The second line contains n space-separated integers a1, a2, ..., an (0 ≤ ai ≤ 100), where ai is the score earned by the participant who got the i-th place. The given sequence is non-increasing (that is, for all i from 1 to n - 1 the following condition is fulfilled: ai ≥ ai + 1).
<br>
<br>
<strong>Output</strong><br>
Output the number of participants who advance to the next round.
<br>
<br>
<strong>Note</strong><br>
In the first example the participant on the 5th place earned 7 points. As the participant on the 6th place also earned 7 points, there are 6 advancers.

In the second example nobody got a positive score.
</blockquote>

####Sample test(s):

```bash
input
8 5
10 9 8 7 7 7 5 5
output
6

input
4 2
0 0 0 0
output
0
```

####Code:

```python
#第一行输入为n和k,n表示第二行输入有n个数字
#输出第二行有多少输入的数字的值大于等于第k个数的值，即ak
#ak如果为0，则输出的是有多少数大于ak的值
import sys
#获得第一行输入
inputs = sys.stdin.readline().split()
n = int(inputs[0])
k = int(inputs[1])
#获得第二行输入
an = sys.stdin.readline().split()
#获得ak的值
ak = int(an[k-1])
count = 0
#如果ak为0，则计算大于ak的数字总共有多少个
if ak == 0:
	for i in range(n):
		if(int(an[i])>0):
			count +=1
		else:
			break
#如果ak不为0，则计算大于等于ak的数字总共有多少个
else:
	for i in range(n):
		if(int(an[i])>=ak):
			count += 1
		else:
			break
print count
```

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# 71A Way Too Long Words

<blockquote>
<p>Sometimes some words like "localization" or "internationalization" are so long that writing them many times in one text is quite tiresome.</p>

<p>Let's consider a word too long, if its length is strictly more than 10 characters. All too long words should be replaced with a special abbreviation.</p>

<p>This abbreviation is made like this: we write down the first and the last letter of a word and between them we write the number of letters between the first and the last letters. That number is in decimal system and doesn't contain any leading zeroes.</p>

<p>Thus, "localization" will be spelt as "l10n", and "internationalization» will be spelt as "i18n".</p>

<p>You are suggested to automatize the process of changing the words with abbreviations. At that all too long words should be replaced by the abbreviation and the words that are not too long should not undergo any changes.</p>

<strong>Input</strong><br>
The first line contains an integer n (1 ≤ n ≤ 100). Each of the following n lines contains one word. All the words consist of lowercase Latin letters and possess the lengths of from 1 to 100 characters.
<br>
<br>
<strong>Output</strong><br>
Print n lines. The i-th line should contain the result of replacing of the i-th word from the input data.
</blockquote>

####Sample test(s):

```bash
input
4
word
localization
internationalization
pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis
output
word
l10n
i18n
p43s
```

####Code:

```python
#这道题主要是对输入的单词进行缩写
#缩写的格式为：
#如果单词小于10个字母，那么正常输出该单词
#如果单词大于10个字母，那么输出首字母+中间字母的个数+尾字母
import sys
#读入第一行输入，第一行输入用来确定总共数据几行单词进行转换
lines = int(sys.stdin.readline())
#进行循环读取
for line in range(lines):
    #readline()函数会将一行中的换行符读取进来，所以需要strip()进行格式化
    word = sys.stdin.readline().strip()
    #len()函数用来统计字符串长度
    wordLenght = len(word)
    #如果单词长度大于10，则按照首字母+中间字母的个数+尾字母进行输出
    if wordLenght > 10:
        print "%s%d%s" %(word[0], wordLenght - 2, word[wordLenght-1])
    #如果单词长度小于10，则直接输出该单词
    else:
        print word
```

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# 118A String Task

<blockquote>
<p>Petya started to attend programming lessons. On the first lesson his task was to write a simple program. The program was supposed to do the following: in the given string, consisting if uppercase and lowercase Latin letters, it:</p>
* deletes all the vowels,<br>
* inserts a character "." before each consonant,<br>
* replaces all uppercase consonants with corresponding lowercase ones.<br>
<p>Vowels are letters "A", "O", "Y", "E", "U", "I", and the rest are consonants. The program's input is exactly one string, it should return the output as a single string, resulting after the program's processing the initial string.</p>
<p>Help Petya cope with this easy task.</p>

<strong>Input</strong><br>
The first line represents input string of Petya's program. This string only consists of uppercase and lowercase Latin letters and its length is from 1 to 100, inclusive.
<br>
<br>
<strong>Output</strong><br>
Print the resulting string. It is guaranteed that this string is not empty.
</blockquote>

####Sample test(s):

```bash
input
tour
output
.t.r

input
Codeforces
output
.c.d.f.r.c.s

input
aBAcAba
output
.b.c.b
```

####Code:

```python
#给定输入的单词，对其进行去元音并在辅音前面加上"."
#另外需要将其变成小写字母
import sys
#读取输入的单词，并把每个字母转换成小写字母
word = sys.stdin.readline().split()[0].lower()
#建立一个map，key是aoyeui这些元音
vowels = {"a":1,"o":1,"y":1,"e":1,"u":1,"i":1}
result = ""
for i in range(len(word)):
    #遍历输入的单词的字母
    #如果字母为原因则忽略，如果不是原因则加上"."拼接到result字符串上
    if not vowels.has_key(word[i]):
        result += "." + word[i]
print result
```

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------