---
layout: python_item
permalink: /python/answers/cf41-60/
title: "CF Solutions 41-60"
date: "2013-11-27 02:12:52 +0200"
author: wh1100717
version: 1.0.0
categories: [2/20]
---

```
选择题目的顺序是按照CodeForces上面Sovled排序而得到的。
该文档中包含前41-60道题目的解题方法和相应Python代码，他们分别是：
149A   41A    278A   270A    344A   313A   124A  158C   339B   230A
334A   318A   337A   158D    276A   214A   37A   330A   285A   233A
```
<div class="note info">
  <h5>关于Sample Test样式的问题</h5>
  <p>目前我是直接用的pygments bash类型来对test进行处理，实际上我觉得input和output如果能带上颜色，那么会更直观一些。</p>
  <p>如果有人对<a href="http://pygments.org/" target=_blank>Hacking For Pygments</a>感兴趣，可以试着增加对input和output的过滤识别并上色，或者也可以试着尝试一下pygments支持的哪种语言可以对其上色。</p>
</div>

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# 149A Business trip

<blockquote>
<p>What joy! Petya's parents went on a business trip for the whole year and the playful kid is left all by himself. Petya got absolutely happy. He jumped on the bed and threw pillows all day long, until...</p>

<p>Today Petya opened the cupboard and found a scary note there. His parents had left him with duties: he should water their favourite flower all year, each day, in the morning, in the afternoon and in the evening. "Wait a second!" — thought Petya. He know for a fact that if he fulfills the parents' task in the i-th (1 ≤ i ≤ 12) month of the year, then the flower will grow by ai centimeters, and if he doesn't water the flower in the i-th month, then the flower won't grow this month. Petya also knows that try as he might, his parents won't believe that he has been watering the flower if it grows strictly less than by k centimeters.</p>

<p>Help Petya choose the minimum number of months when he will water the flower, given that the flower should grow no less than by k centimeters.</p>

<strong>Input</strong><br>
The first line contains exactly one integer k (0 ≤ k ≤ 100). The next line contains twelve space-separated integers: the i-th (1 ≤ i ≤ 12) number in the line represents ai (0 ≤ ai ≤ 100).
<br>
<br>
<strong>Output</strong><br>
Print the only integer — the minimum number of months when Petya has to water the flower so that the flower grows no less than by k centimeters. If the flower can't grow by k centimeters in a year, print -1.
<br>
<br>
<strong>Note</strong><br>
Let's consider the first sample test. There it is enough to water the flower during the seventh and the ninth month. Then the flower grows by exactly five centimeters.

In the second sample Petya's parents will believe him even if the flower doesn't grow at all (k = 0). So, it is possible for Petya not to water the flower at all.
</blockquote>

####Sample test(s):

```bash
input
5
1 1 1 1 2 2 3 2 2 1 1 1
output
2

input
0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 2 3 0
output
0

input
11
1 1 4 1 1 5 1 1 4 1 1 1
output
3
```

####Code:

```python
#统计最少需要交几个月的水花能长k厘米。
#将第二行输入进行逆序排序，然后相加直到大于等于第一行输入
#那么被加数的个数就是本题的输出
import sys
k = int(sys.stdin.readline())
monthi = sorted(sys.stdin.readline().split(), key=int, reverse=True)
n = 0
wateredK = 0
for i in range(len(monthi)):
	if wateredK >= k: break
	wateredK += int(monthi[i])
	n += 1
print (n if wateredK >= k else -1)
```

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

# 41A Translation

<blockquote>
<p>The translation from the Berland language into the Birland language is not an easy task. Those languages are very similar: a berlandish word differs from a birlandish word with the same meaning a little: it is spelled (and pronounced) reversely. For example, a Berlandish word code corresponds to a Birlandish word edoc. However, it's easy to make a mistake during the «translation». Vasya translated word s from Berlandish into Birlandish as t. Help him: find out if he translated the word correctly.</p>

<strong>Input</strong><br>
The first line contains word s, the second line contains word t. The words consist of lowercase Latin letters. The input data do not consist unnecessary spaces. The words are not empty and their lengths do not exceed 100 symbols.
<br>
<br>
<strong>Output</strong><br>
If the word t is a word s, written reversely, print YES, otherwise print NO.
</blockquote>

####Sample test(s):

```bash
input
code
edoc
output
YES

input
abb
aba
output
NO

input
code
code
output
NO
```

####Code:

```python
#这道题就是比较第一行和第二行字符串是否是互逆的
#[begin:end:step]---> [::-1]可以逆序输出字符串
#所以这道题就解决了
import sys
print ("YES" if sys.stdin.readline().strip() == sys.stdin.readline().strip()[::-1] else "NO")
```

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------